TOTP - Time-Based One-Time Password Algorithm Library
=============

[RFC6238](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6238) Java implementation that is compatibile with Google Authenticator Application.

**TOTP Explantion and need of implementation** 
**Explain**-
{If your website features a username+password authentication system, you owe it 
to your users to offer 2-factor authentication (or 2fa for short) as an additional
measure of protection for their accounts. If you're unfamiliar with 2fa, it's that
step in the login sequence that asks the user for a (typically) 6-digit numeric code
in order to complete user authentication. The 6 digit codes are either sent to the user's
phone as a text message upon a login attempt or generated by an app such as Google Authenticator.
Codes have a short validity period of typically 30 or 60 seconds. This will show you how
to implement such a system using java in a way that is compatible with Google Authenticator.}


**Implementation**-
{Your first idea for implementing the server side component of a 2fa system might be to randomly
generate 6 digit codes with short validity periods and send them to the user's phone in response 
to a login attempt. One major shortcoming with this approach is that your implementation wouldn't
be compatible with 2fa apps such as Google Authenticator which many users will prefer to use. 
In order to build a 2fa system that is compatible with Google Authenticator, we need to know what
algorithm it uses to generate codes. Fortunately, there is an RCF which precisely specifies the algorithm. 
RFC 6238 describes the "time-based one-time password" algorithm, or TOTP for short. The TOTP algorithm combines
a one time password (or secret key) and the current time to generate codes that change as time marches forward.
RFC 6238 also includes a reference implementation in java under the commercial-friendly Simplified BSD license.
This tutorial will show you how to use code from the RFC to build a working 2fa system that could easily be adapted 
into your java project.}

Provides utility class for generating links for QR codes that can be scanned by Goodle Authenticator. It is also capable of generating authentication codes as well as their verification.

It is very easy to use:

	TOTPManager manager = new TOTPManager();
	
	byte[] secret = Secret.generate();
	
	// generate Google Authenticator QR Code
	String encoded = Secret.toBase32(secret);
	String qr = GoogleAuthenticator.getQRUrl("jdoe", "example.com", encoded);
	
	// generate TOTP code
	int code = manager.generate(secret);
	boolean valid = manager.validate(secret, code); // by default code is valid for 60 seconds
	
Demo available for preview at: http://security-totp.appspot.com/
	
